The folder 'Writing_Sample_RBC_Simulation' contains code I wrote/used to simulate a simple RBC 
model and generate figures 1, 2, 4 & 5 for my writing sample. The simulation is coded in R using
the gEcon package. gEcon is an open source R package originally developed & maintained by the
Polish Ministry of Finance. The package allows users to solve and simulate DSGE models by 
formulating them as a set of optimization problems faced by agents within the model. Below, 
I provide:

  I. An explanation of the contents of 'Writing_Sample_RBC_Simulation'
  
  II. A brief note on how to download and run gEcon (NB: running any of my code will require gEcon)


**I. EXPLANATION OF 'Writing_Sample_RBC_Simulation' CONTENTS**

In 'Writing_Sample_RBC_Simulation' you will find a subfolder, 'figures', and four files. 'figures'
contains the various plots generated by my RBC simulation, and which I used in my
writing sample. Note, running the script 'rbc_interative.R' will generate additional plots, and
overwrite the existing plots in 'figures'. The folder 'Writing_Sample_RBC_Simulation' is saved
as an R project, and the aforementioned five files are:

  1. D_Conway_Writing_Sample.pdf -- i.e. my writing sample
  2. 'rbc_writing_sample_.Rproj' -- i.e. the R project
  3. 'rbc_setup.gcn' -- i.e. the simple RBC model setup
  4. 'rbc_interactive.R' -- i.e. the script which interacts with the simple RBC model
  5. 'rbc_setup.model.R' -- i.e. a script generated by gEcon which solves 'rbc_setup.gcn' 

'rbc_writing_sample_.Rproj' is the R project directory. 'D_Conway_Writing_Sample.pdf' is my econ predoc
application writing sample. 'rbc_setup.gcn' is the set of optimization problems, identities, shock 
mechanism, parameter values and equilibrium conditions that define the simple RBC model. 'rbc_interactive.R' 
is the R script that is used to call, simulate and generate figures for the model. To run 'rbc_interative.R' 
you will need the libraries: 'tidyverse', 'MASS', 'Matrix', 'Rcpp', 'nleqslv' and 'gEcon'. With the 
exception of gEcon, all of these libraries are available on CRAN. 'rbc_setup.model.R' is a file generated 
by the gECon package after running the script 'rbc_interactive.R'. The file contains the solutions, steady 
states etc. of the solved model set up in 'rbc_setup.gcn'. NB: once the model has been set up in 
'rbc_setup.gcn', all interaction with the model should exclusively be through the script 'rbc_interactive.R'.


**II. HOW TO INSTALL/RUN gEcon**

Unforunately, gEcon cannot be installed via CRAN. Step-by-step, here
is how to install gECon:

  MAC:

    1. Follow the link https://gecon.r-forge.r-project.org
    2. Download the latest gEcon_x.x.x.tar.gz file (source package) compatible with your R version
    3. In RStudio, run:
         install.packages('/path/to/gEcon_x.x.x.tar.gz', repos = NULL, type = 'source')
    4. After installation, check that the package loads by running:
         library(gEcon)

  WINDOWS:

    1. Follow the link https://gecon.r-forge.r-project.org
    2. Download the Windows binary gEcon_x.x.x.zip matching your R version.
    3. In R / RStudio, either:
         - use Tools -> Install Packages -> “Install from: Package Archive File” and select
           the downloaded .zip file; or
         - run:
             install.packages('C:/path/to/gEcon_x.x.x.zip', repos = NULL, type = 'binary')
    4. After installation, check that the package loads by running:
         library(gEcon)
    
Fore more information on the gEcon package, refer to https://gecon.r-forge.r-project.org




